Upgrade docs for 1.9 (#9997)
rook/rook: Documentation/ceph-upgrade.md

## Breaking changes in this release

* MDS liveness and startup probes are now configured by the CephFilesystem resource instead of
  CephCluster. Upgrade instructions are [below](#mds-liveness-and-startup-probes).

* Helm charts now define default resource requests and limits for Rook-Ceph Pods. If you use Helm,
  ensure you have defined an override for these in your `values.yaml` if you don't wish to use the
  recommended defaults. Setting resource requests and limits could mean that Kubernetes will not

>   allow Pods to be scheduled in some cases, so be sure to consider this fully.

Reviewer: How about this?
```suggestion
  allow Pods to be scheduled in some cases. If sufficient resources are not available, you can reduce or remove the requests and limits.
```

#### **Updates for optional resources**

> ##### Prometheus

Reviewer: How about we change these headers to 3rd level? The headers aren't very obvious at a level lower than that.
```suggestion
### Prometheus updates (optional)
```

If you have [Prometheus monitoring](ceph-monitoring.md) enabled, follow the
step to upgrade the Prometheus RBAC resources as well.

```sh
kubectl apply -f deploy/examples/monitoring/rbac.yaml
```

Rook no longer deploys Prometheus rules from the operator.

If you use the Helm chart `monitoring.enabled` value to deploy Prometheus rules, you may now
additionally use `monitoring.createPrometheusRules` to instruct Helm to deploy the rules. You may
alternately deploy the rules manually if you wish.

To see the latest information about manually deploying rules, see the
[Prometheus monitoring docs](ceph-monitoring.md#prometheus-alets).

> ##### MDS liveness and startup probes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### MDS liveness and startup probes (optional)
```

```

#### Admission controller
If you use the optional [Admission controller](admission-controller-usage.md), there are additional
updates during this step. The admission controller has been integrated inside the operator
instead of a separate deployment. This means that the webhook server certificates are now stored in
the operator, and the operator manifest must be updated to use the one provided in
`deploy/examples/operator.yaml`. If you are using Helm to manage the deployment, this is handled
automatically.

When updating the operator deployment with the latest example from Rook, there is risk of
overwriting changes if you have customized the operator deployment or to the
`rook-ceph-operator-config` ConfigMap. We suggest that you remove the ConfigMap from `operator.yaml`
before moving on. Additionally, we encourage you to diff the current deployment and the latest one
to be sure any changes you may have made don't get overwritten. Required changes include the
`webhook-cert` volume/mount and `https-webhook` port, though there are some smaller changes as well.

Once you are sure any custom modifications to your operator deployment won't be overwritten, apply

> the new `operator.yaml` with `kubectl apply -f deploy/examples/operator.yaml`.

Author: I believe this only applied to the 1.8 upgrade. @leseb @subhamkrai is that right?

```console
# kubectl -n $ROOK_CLUSTER_NAMESPACE get deployment -l rook_cluster=$ROOK_CLUSTER_NAMESPACE -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{"rook-version="}{.metadata.labels.rook-version}{"\n"}{end}' | sort | uniq
This cluster is not yet finished:
  rook-version=v1.8.8
  rook-version=v1.9.0
This cluster is finished:
  rook-version=v1.9.0
```

### **5. Verify the updated cluster**

At this point, your Rook operator should be running version `rook/ceph:v1.9.0`.

Verify the Ceph cluster's health using the [health verification section](#health-verification).

## Ceph Version Upgrades

Rook v1.9 supports the following Ceph versions:
- Ceph Quincy v17.2.0 or newer
- Ceph Pacific v16.2.0 or newer
- Ceph Octopus v15.2.0 or newer

> These are the only supported versions of Ceph. Rook v1.10 may drop support for Ceph Octopus

Reviewer: Seems reasonable to plan on this
```suggestion
These are the only supported versions of Ceph. Rook v1.10 is planning to drop support for Ceph Octopus
```

See for more information, see here: https://github.com/rook/rook/issues/9185

### **Rename CephBlockPool device_health_metrics pool when upgrading to Quincy v17**
In Ceph Quincy (v17), the `device_health_metrics` pool was renamed to `.mgr`. Ceph will perform this
migration automatically. If you do not use CephBlockPool to customize the configuration of the
`device_health_metrics` pool, you don't need to do anything further here.

If you do use CephBlockPool to customize the configuration of the `device_health_metrics` pool, you
will need to do a few steps after the Ceph upgrade is complete. Once upgrade is complete, create a
new CephBlockPool to configure the `.mgr` built-in pool. You can reference the example

> [builtin mgr pool](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/{{ branchName }}/deploy/examples/pool-builtin-mgr.yaml).

Reviewer: Shall we have them check if the pool was renamed successfully? Or did ceph convert it seemlessly in your upgrade testing?

See for more information, see here: https://github.com/rook/rook/issues/9185

### **Rename CephBlockPool device_health_metrics pool when upgrading to Quincy v17**
In Ceph Quincy (v17), the `device_health_metrics` pool was renamed to `.mgr`. Ceph will perform this
migration automatically. If you do not use CephBlockPool to customize the configuration of the
`device_health_metrics` pool, you don't need to do anything further here.

If you do use CephBlockPool to customize the configuration of the `device_health_metrics` pool, you
should create a new CephBlockPool to configure the `.mgr` built-in pool when starting the upgrade.
You can reference the example
[builtin mgr pool](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/{{ branchName }}/deploy/examples/pool-builtin-mgr.yaml).
Once the upgrade is complete, it is safe to delete the old CephBlockPool that represents the
`device_health_metrics` pool.

> 

Author: I did some pretty extensive testing here to see what happens...
- if the pool is renamed versus created new
- when/if the `device_health_metrics` one is deleted
- what happens when the operator restarts

... and I believe this is the single workflow that will work for all cases without the possibility of leaving  a stray `device_health_metrics` pool and without causing the `device_health_metrics` pool to be destroyed prematurely.

Author: Although... maybe it's best to not create it until after in case content present in device_health_metrics wouldn't be copied/transferred properly?

See for more information, see here: https://github.com/rook/rook/issues/9185

### **Rename CephBlockPool device_health_metrics pool when upgrading to Quincy v17**
In Ceph Quincy (v17), the `device_health_metrics` pool was renamed to `.mgr`. Ceph will perform this
migration automatically; however, if you use CephBlockPool to customize the configuration of the
`device_health_metrics` pool, you should update the CephBlockPool to use the new name (`.mgr`) after
<!-- TODO: after, or before? -->
updating to Ceph v17. Or you can create a new CephBlockPool for the `.mgr` pool and delete the old
`device_health_metrics` pool.
<!-- TODO: @travisn is this right? -->

> 

Author: @travisn could use your eyes here. I'll also test this myself, but you may have better recommendations to start with.

Reviewer: Here's the sequence of events I would anticipate.
1. Cluster is configured on v1.8
2. Upgrade Rook to v1.9. The operator is restarted, and all the reconciles settle on the current version of Ceph (e.g. Pacific)
3. When ready, upgrade to Ceph Quincy. The ceph daemons will all be upgraded, and ceph will rename the pool to `.mgr`.
4. Check that the Ceph pool was automatically renamed to `.mgr`.
5. Now the pool CR should be updated: `name: .mgr`. 
 
As long as the rook operator is not restarted between steps 4 and 5 there should be no issue. Step 4 will just cause the pool to be reconciled as `.mgr`, and it will find it already exists. And if the operator does reconcile for some reason including a restart, the worst thing that happens is that the device_health_metrics pool will be created again and remain unused by Ceph. 

So I believe we just need to document those steps 4-5 after upgrading to quincy.
